---
title: "Plasma-assisted stabilization of premixed swirl flames by gliding arc discharges"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2009-10-01-paper-title-number-1
excerpt: # "This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work."
date: 2020-09-21
venue: "Proeedings of the Combustion Institute"
slidesurl: # "http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf"
paperurl: "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proci.2020.06.223" # 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf'
citation: "Jinguo Sun, Yong Tang, and Shuiqing Li. Plasma-assisted stabilization of premixed swirl flames by gliding arc discharges. <i>Proceedings of the Combustion Institute</i> 38.4 (2021): 6733-6741." #"Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1)."
---

Abstract:
This paper presents key effects of gliding arc discharges on the stability limits of externally perturbed methane/air swirl flames. The low-frequency flow disturbance mimicking the transient conditions in practical combustor was generated by a flow pulsation system with repetition of ∼5 Hz. The synchronized OH planar laser-induced fluorescence and particle imaging velocimetry (OH-PLIF/PIV) measurements were utilized to visualize the instantaneous flow and flame structures. We find that, with gliding arc discharges, the lean blowout limits in perturbed flames are dramatically extended by up to 60%, which is more pronounced than in non-perturbed flames. OH-PLIF/PIV results show that, the stabilization effect can be explained by the expansion of the inner recirculation zone, wherein the opening angle increases from 52° to 62° due to the plasma enhancement. Time-resolved OH-PLIF images illustrate that, in the presence of gliding arc discharges, the flame response to the flow disturbance consists of three stages, including enhancement, extinction, and re-ignition processes. Furthermore, proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) analysis of OH-PLIF images reveals a considerable increase of mean energy contents and suppression of turbulent fluctuations. It suggests that the enhancement of gliding arc discharges is not a simple superposition of the energy deposit, but a strong non-linear coupling between the plasma and the turbulent flame with closed-loop feedbacks.
